So the context API, this is from the docs,
it's a way to pass data through
the component tree without having to pass
the props down manually
through every level.
That is solving that
problem we talked about
with the very simple example in
the grudges and the much more complicated
example I showed on the screen
mostly to just stress you out.
In fact,
that wasn't even all the components.
There were more drop downs and stuff but
my PowerPoint slide was only so big.
So I could have made it all smaller
to make it more stressful, but
I think I got the point across.
So the context API just basically
gives you this kind of thread
that anything can tap into.
Now, you're going to have these
self-contained components that can be
rearranged and moved anywhere and
will automatically hook into our state
management, which is incredibly powerful.
And we will get some
tradeoffs along the way.
So just like we had use reducer and
all those things, and memo, and
use callback,
they're all on the react object.
The ability to create a context
is in react.createContext.
Now, there will be a little tricky
part that we have to talk about,
which is when you call that,
you get two components, right?
You get a provider component and
you get a consumer component.
And this will get a little worse because
we also use a pattern where we call
another component provider.
I will try to walk us through
it as best as possible.
But that is the general convention.
I could like lie to you and
make it seem different,
but I'm .we're gonna talk about how you
normally will see it in the real world.
So when you call, that you'll get out
two components, provider and consumer.
If you are using hooks,
you can probably get away with
never even touching the consumer.
I'll show you an example pre hooks
where you would use the consumer using
the render pattern.
But here's an example more in code,
which is we can bring in react
we can call react.createContext.
And you can say they
are properties of the context.
They're components in their own right.
And how this works is you've gotta provide
a component that gets a value as a prompt,
right?
And this is pre hooks, we'll actually
it see with hooks in a second.
And then any child component
anywhere in that component tree,
they can call the consumer component,
and they'll have access to that value.
You'll see as this render prop pattern,
which if you've never seen before,
it's basically the idea is
the child is a function
that gets the data that
you can then use it.
We won't actually see this
cuz we're gonna use hooks.
And there's a use context hook that
basically hides this all from you.
But generally speaking, you will get
anything that you pass as the value,
as a prop, will be available
anywhere in the component tree.
This can get a little tricky though.
Because you'll notice that
that is simply a prop.
It has no state management of itself,
right?
And so the way that we're gonna handle
this is we're gonna take that provider and
we're going to hug it with
some state management, right?
And that state management the value, if
it was account, it would be the count or
the list of grudges, or all those things
will get passed in as the value so
they'll kind of be another component
sitting above this that hugs the provider.
Does all this state management and
then passes the result into the provider,
which then can give it
to the rest of the tree.
So this is what it might
look like with a counter.
And this is that hugging provider
pattern that I talked about before.
And what I don't love, but
I don't make the rules,
my job is just to tell you about them,
is that typically,
you'll notice that the state
management is called CountProvider.
And it calls the CountContext
provider below, right?
It is basically all the state management.
And then whatever happens then
gets passed in as a value.
If this stresses you out right now,
it is okay.
When we actually implement it, right?
It'll be a little clearer.
What I wanna do is kind of
set the mental context now.
And then we'll get a little bit
deeper into it as as we implement.
Because the value prop is simply a prop.
So we just have a component above it.
They'll handle all of the adding,
removing of grudges, the forgiving,
the not forgiving, and
then passing those in through the tree.
All right, so what we're going to do
is we're going to take our current
implementation, and
we're going to refactor it.
And the end goal that we're trying to get
to is to make it so that this grudges does
not have to take it from the application
and pass it to the individual grudge.
Because if we're using
the context API correctly,
any given component can get
access to either all the grudges,
the ability to add a grudge, or the
ability to forgive a given grudge, right?
And so if we wanted to add like
the ability to add another grad from
an individual grudge, like, hey, all that
functionality is available everywhere.
We don't need to thread it
through the proper tree.
And again, we have a very simple example.
But most examples will have many children.
And you think about current user,
Ends up being needed everywhere, right?
Should you show them a delete
button on the tweet?
Is it their tweet, right?
You kind of need stuff like that
everywhere and those become the most
pervasive ones that end up needing to
be thread through the entire tree.
In those cases, we'd make a user contacts.
And we'd have any component that
needs to know about the current
user be able to hook into that context and
get it.
And the ones that don't do not
have start passing stuff along.
Right?
So this is kind of a microcosm that lets
us think about that.
All right, so
our goal is to get this out of Grudges.
Now, this will start out with a certain
amount of moving code around,
which is pretty great.
So we're gonna make a new file,
we'll call it grudge context.
And we're gonna take all
of our state management and
move it out into this context, right?
So that'll start out
with pulling in react.
UseReducer cuz we're gonna take our
current implementation of state and
just use it.
So we'll pull on useReducer then
createContext and use callback.
Use callback is going to end up
being pointless, spoiler alert, but
I just wanna be able to copy and
paste code for now.
But I want to leave it in there so
you can see it not do its thing.
Cool, so let's actually do a little
bit of copy paste action here.
We can grab initial state in the ID.
Cuz application's no
longer gonna even think,
none of this is gonna
live in here anymore.
So we'll grab these two dependencies.
We'll grab our action types,
we'll grab our reducer, and
we're gonna take all of that out and
pull it with us.
We'll see how the actual componentry
is gonna end up being a lot cleaner
at the end.
And this is ultimately a maintainability
play that we're doing here.
So paste this all in, right?
And in a more complicated application,
would you maybe break the reducer out,
if it was very complicated, into its own
Reducer.js, you'd break the actions out?
Yeah, probably.
So we'll do this as well.
And then we're also going to grab
an application, all of these methods here.
Now, the application is not gonna run for
a little bit as we conduct our open
heart surgery on this application,
but that's okay.
So the application is
already shrunk down a lot.
It's actually going to get
even lighter momentarily.
Actually, hold on,
I need that, Top line, as well.
So we'll grab all that.
Because we're going to pull
this out of application and
put it in that kind of hugging provider
component that we talked about before.
And then any component that needs this,
because application itself
doesn't need any of this state.
Application doesn't need
to know about the grudges.
It doesn't need to know about add grudge,
it doesn't need to know
about forgiving a grudge.
It was only there cuz it was
the topmost part of the pyramid.
So it had to do with the coordination,
right?
By pulling it out into the context where
any of the components that need this stuff
can use it, we don't need to keep
it in an application, right?
So application is going to get very tiny.
And we begin to think about our
UI as the individual pieces and
how we want to arrange them.
Less about, okay,
where do I have to put all the state and
kind of thread it through?
This idea of separating out our state
management from our react application,
I think is really, really key for
a maintainable code base.
So we'll start by ripping that out.
And we gonna move that in here as well.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
say export const GrudgeProvider.
This is just a component.
We'll start just by
pasting all of that in.
Right, so it's got the reducer.
It's got these action dispatchers.
These are just functions that
format the dispatch, right?
Could you theoretically just call
dispatch and dispatch these obects?
Totally, but if you flub any of this,
it'll just not do things.
And so we make a function
that generates the objects so
that we are less likely
to mess them up later.
This is mostly us protecting
us from ourselves.
You could theoretically just call dispatch
anywhere in the application as well.
And later we'll kinda see
something like that as well.
But we only make these functions to make
it a little bit easier for ourselves.
Great, so we've got that in place.
So now what we wanna do is right now,
there's only the functions and
the using of the reducer in here.
So we've got all of that in place.
What we need to do now is,
We'll return that provider.
We actually haven't made the context yet,
so let's go back up and do that.
So we'll just say const
GrudgeContext with createContext.
Nope.
And so again, that gave us,
actually, I think if I type it here,
you'll see VS Code auto-complete it for
me.
All right, you can see,
I have the consumer and the provider.
Consumer, because we're gonna use a hook,
again, is gonna be hidden from us.
Provider is gonna be the one
that we end up using.
So here we're just going to
return Grudgecontext.Provider.
And we want to then render any of
the children handed to us, right?
So the child components that come in
are available as a prop called children.
So we'll grab those.
And again, all we're doing right
now is taking the state management
that was an application that didn't
actually need to own any of it because it
doesn't care about any of it.
And we pointed out to this separate
component totally separate from our UI.
So we're gonna say, hey, we now have
this grudge provider component.
And all it's gonna do is take
our state management pieces,
the ability to shoot it down the component
tree to anything that needs it.
And then render whatever.
So all of our state management
now is completely separated out.
Now, we need to give it that value, and
so I'm gonna give it an object because
we can only pass in one value, right?
In that example I showed you on the slide,
it was zero, or one, or two, or whatever.
The value I'm gonna give it is here's
an object, it's got the grudges,
the ability to add a grudge and
the ability to toggle forgiveness.
Anyone in the component tree that
needs any of those things, go grab it.
We're gonna make it
available to all of you.
So we'll just say,
I'll call it my const value.
I could do it inline too.
I'll actually show you the difference.
So I'll just say, okay,
we've got the grudges.
We've got addGrudge and,
And we pass it in here,
this value equals that value.
Could you theoretically just do it inline,
Like that?
Yes, you could.
The big question is, one,
how many things are you passing in?
And two, one time, I forgot that I
needed two sets of curly braces,
one to use JavaScript and
one for the object.
And I lost 20 minutes of my life,
and I have the scar tissue there,
I'll never do it again.
So some of that is the fact
that I am broken as a person.
It's up to you,
if you would rather just pass it in line,
there's nothing stopping you.
It's not the Steve said you had
to do it like that, he didn't.
He did not say that.
Don't put words in my mouth.
So there it is.
So now we have this ability.
Anything that is a child of GrudgePeovider
can use the use context hook and
hook into any of these three things.
We have an obvious problem right now,
which is nothing is a child and
GrudgeProvider.
Cut it's just a component we wrote
on a file we didn't use, right?
This is an easily solvable problem, but
it is still a problem that
we need to easily solve.
So one way that we can handle
this is we can go to index and
just wrap application in this.
Right, and so now, We'll go ahead and
we'll just wrap the entire application,
In GrudgeProvider.
So now anything in the application
can hook into that context and
get it anywhere,
which means application does not need
to hold on to any of this stuff for us.
It's available anywhere from
the components that need it.